In this section we learned about CSSA properties useful for styling tables.
First we looked at properties that we can use to modify the style and display of tables.
The border property allows us to add a border of a specified with style and color to our table and the
cells in our table.
The border collapse property allows us to collapse the table border and cell borders into one border
the width and height properties allow us to add a width and height to our table.
The table caption property allows us to specify where to place the table caption assigning this property
a value of top will position the caption above our table of value of bottom we'll put the caption below
our table.
Next we learned about CSSA properties that we can use to align the text within the cells in our table
the text align property allows us to specify if the text in our tables should be aligned to the left
right or center.
The text in our table is aligned to the left by default.
The vertical align property allows us to specify how text is aligned vertically inside of the cells
in our table.
We can specify a value of top middle or bottom for the vertical align property.
The table layout property allows us to specify the algorithm used for the table layout CSSA gives us
two values we can assign to this property auto and fixed assigning the table layout property to a value
of auto will tell the browser to use an automatic table layout algorithm.
This algorithm goes through the entire table before it is displayed and calculates the size of the cells
based on their content.
If we give the table lay out property value of fixed the width of the cells is not dependent on their
content.
Each shell in the table is the same size and the size of the cells is based on the size of the table
and its columns.
The fixed algorithm is faster at displaying the table in the auto algorithm due to the fact that the
auto algorithm goes through the entire table before displaying it whereas the fixed algorithm does not.
Finally we learned about a few selectors.
SS gives us they had cool effects to our table.
The hover selector lets us modify the elements that we hover over.
We looked at how we could change the background color of the table rose as we hovered over them with
our mouse using this property.
The end to child selector allows us to apply styles to specified rows we can use that even in odd keywords
to apply these styles to the even and odd rows in our table.
We can also specify a number which represents the number of rows to be affected by the style we specify
in the next section.
We will learn about styling lists using CSF.